[BLOG] Add re-engineering cicd pipelines for scipy (#508)
Quansight/Quansight-website: apps/labs/posts/re-engineering-cicd-pipelines-for-scipy.md

- SciPy uses parallel builds across the Azure DevOps pipelines and macOS GitHub Actions along with the test scripts. We want to consider what parts of the entire matrix we wish to run on the CI providers we choose to balance the overhead of using multiple providers.

- SciPy currently lacks any developer documentation for CI providers. Documenting the CI systems and the build matrix is necessary for developers to cross-reference them in future improvements. We can also document how to emulate CI runs locally through specific tools.

## Implementing the local CI run

The project's first step was to ensure that we could run the GitHub Actions CI locally to ensure faster iterations on the failures we encountered. GitHub does not feature an official tool to make this possible; hence we had to look at third-party alternatives like Act.

`act` is a tool offered by Nektos which provides a handy way to run GitHub Actions locally. It gives a quick way to validate your changes on the CI locally, without committing/pushing your changes to the workflows to trigger and validate them. It leads to fast feedback and compatibility as a local task runner to validate all our CI jobs.

> You can try out `act` yourself by cloning [Ralf’s fork](https://github.com/rgommers/scipy) and referencing the documentation for the [`act` usage](https://github.com/rgommers/scipy/blob/meson/ACT-USAGE.md). It keeps the GitHub Action notifications clutter-free and reduces the chance of accidentally triggering any failure during debugging.

Reviewer: @rgommers the `àct usage` link here is broken.
Would https://docs.scipy.org/doc/scipy/dev/contributor/using_act.html this be the right link to replace it, or something else?

Reviewer 2: Yes that is the right link

> You can try out `act` yourself by cloning [Ralf’s fork](https://github.com/rgommers/scipy) and referencing the documentation for the [`act` usage](https://github.com/rgommers/scipy/blob/meson/ACT-USAGE.md). It keeps the GitHub Action notifications clutter-free and reduces the chance of accidentally triggering any failure during debugging.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can try out `act` yourself by cloning [Ralf’s fork](https://github.com/rgommers/scipy) and referencing the documentation for the [`act` usage](https://docs.scipy.org/doc/scipy/dev/contributor/using_act.html). It keeps the GitHub Action notifications clutter-free and reduces the chance of accidentally triggering any failure during debugging.
```

hero:
  imageSrc: /posts/re-engineering-cicd-pipelines-for-scipy/hero.png
  imageAlt: 'The picture displays a logo of Quansight Labs on the left and a logo of SciPy on the right. It signifies the primary purpose of the project at Quansight Labs to re-engineer the GitHub Actions CI for the SciPy and lay down the further scope for developing an entire CI matrix for build, test and release.'
---

In this blog post I talk about the projects and my work during my internship at Quansight Labs. My efforts were geared towards re-engineering CI/CD pipelines for SciPy to make them more efficient to use with GitHub Actions. I also talk about the milestones that I achieved, along with the associated learnings and improvements that I made.

This blog post would assume a basic understanding of CI/CD and GitHub Actions. I will also assume a basic understanding of Python and the SciPy ecosystem.

> <p align="center">

Reviewer: I think we can remove this image now that it's the hero image.

Author: OK! Removed. I think I missed it because it was a few paragraphs down instead of right on top like some other posts.

Author: OK! Image removed and PR merged.

Author: Github says this PR needs approval. Could you approve it now? Or should I merge it myself, since this a minor change?
